# PySpark ETL and Data Lake
ETL pipeline that uses PySpark to process extracted S3 data, and loads data back into S3 as dimensional tables

## Introduction
A (fictional) music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more
 and wants to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs
 on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3,
 processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables.
  This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you
 by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

### Project Tools
Spark API: PySpark 
Cloud Services: Amazon Web Services, for Data Lake hosted on S3 (Simple Storage Service).

Procedure:
* build an ETL pipeline for a data lake 
* load data from S3
* process the data into analytics tables using PySpark
* load them back into S3
* deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS Redshift

### Project Datasets
two datasets that reside in S3. links:

* Song data:  `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
* Log data:  `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`

#### Song Dataset
This is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). 
Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned 
by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
```JSON
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, 
"artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud",
"song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

#### Log Dataset
This dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this
 [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above.
  These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.
 For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```
